 # Platform-Racing-3-PR3-Offline-LAN

 Platform Racing 3 project aimed at making the game offline playable.

The game is currently playable offline and has LAN support.
some features of the project include --

1. LAN auto detect for playing over the same network, direct IP settings for controlling which IP to host the servers on, AND a single config to control all IP's inlcuding Postgre, Redis, and the PR3 servers. Some options in the config include auto mode (auto detect whos host or client), client mode (just launches the game) and host mode (launches the game and servers). Configurable beacon and ping timeout for auto mode on how long to send packets before starting the game as host and more!

2.  Account creation / registration which includes ADMIN for newly created accounts (or a script which turns it off). Give yourself a username, password, and any email (123@example.com) and log in as ADMIN, no tweaking nessesary. Full chat system and functional ADMIN commands- give yourself ANY hat or body part! Want to level up? no problem, just give yourself more EXP :D

3. Complete Campaign system! Includes all the levels from Classic Campaign, Reborn Campaign, and Reborn Campaign 2! Win all the prizes that the campaigns offer, race against your own time and even rank up! Yes you read that right... the singelplayer campaign now allows you to rank up as you play. The EXP is set at a higher rate so that you can rank up and feel the progression as you beat the campaigns.

4. Multiplayer system - Compete, fight, and race your way to victory with your friends- AND win prizes as you do! Includes increased EXP for a more balanced ranking system when its just a couple friends playing. Multiplayer includes over 5000 levels from the best levels category so you arent limited to just the campaign levels. All of the best levels are under a seperate user called BestCampaign and can be played with your friends.

5. Fully functional (or as tested) level, block, and stamp editor. Create, save, share, and publish your levels! Want to edit or share one of the campaign levels? Just log in as one of the campaign users and edit or share one of their levels or blocks. Password for all Campaign users is set to 11111111. Included are a few scripts within the data folder which allow for renaming the campaign users if you so desire.

6. Lastly but not least is the abillity to import and download levels! After launching PlatformRacing3_x86_64.AppImage (or the windows server appimage) at least once, youll find a directory called "data" and inside that directory is a script called PR3Archiver which allows for the downloading and archiving of your levels! When playing levels you'll find the abillity to save the level as a .xml file which can then later be used for importing, and playing. Included will be a script and a README in /data/SQLBackup which explains how to import your own levels. The import script for importing levels will be utilizing the BestCampaign user for importing your levels. The import script CAN be modified to adjust the username BestCampaign but requires a little technical work of changing all references in the script from BestCampaign to your desired username, but its probably easier to just use the included scripts to change the username instead. Levels and blocks can be shared between users as well so if that is your preferred way then that works too. If for whatever reason the PR3Archiver does not load into the game, you can rename /data/Server/Preloader/PR3Archiver/Platform Racing 3.swf.snow.bak to the current Platform Racing 3.swf which should fix any issues if you have any.
side note: when downloading levels make sure to try out the level editor.. you might find something interesting hehe ;)

Included in the Releases tab are two Appimages. The first Appimage (PlatformRacing3_x86_64.AppImage) is bundled with wine (for the Preloader), and the servers are all linux! Postgre, Redis, Web and Game servers are all bundled into the appimage. This is the one you'll probably use the most as it seems to be very quick, responsive, and seamless so far. The second appimage (PlatformRacing3(WinServer)_Wine11_x86_64.AppImage) is bundled with dotnet 8 SDK, wine, and the windows servers. Both appimages are added for compatibility so if you're having issues with one, try the other. The Appimages are standalone and require no extra setup (hopefully). Just click and play.. or add to steam as a non steam game and play that way. Ill probably include my steam artwork for anyone else who wants to use it in the releases tab as well.

I have yet to make a standalone project for windows but it CAN be done. All the scripts included in the Appimage upon extraction include the entire base system for PR3. The create_tables_fixed.sql is just a single script that when imported into postgre will set everything up (minus the levels). The only thing you need installed is postgre, redis, and everything else can be manually set up with the create_tables_fixed.sql and import scripts.

A lot of work went into the project and everything for the most part seems fully functional. If Joni ever decides to make his postgre scripts public one day for offline play, then his project will be superior.. but until then this will do :).

All credit goes to joni (https://github.com/PlatformRacing3/Backend) for uploading his server to github which allowed for this project to be done in the first place. Happy gaming fellow Platform Racers!
